All right.
So we're now moving on from padding and margins to borders.
So looking at how we can give borders to our elements and what different styles we can use.
All right.
Before we do that I'm going to give you a quick challenge because everything is getting a little bit
complex here.
So to make it easier just to work with borders I'm going to reset everything back to zero.
And then I'd like you to create using just divs three squares 100 pixels wide and 100 pixels high and
make them red blue and green three squares and pixels by a hundred pixels and red blue and green different.
All right type you managed it.
I'm going to start with the h t m l
and all we're going to need here is Dave's with ID's.
I'm going to use IDs because it's only going to be one of each of them and I'm going to call the first
one square dash red
and then
another one will be square dash blue
and the third will be you've guessed it square dash green.
OK.
So obviously if we look at that there's nothing there because there's no content but we can add some
styling to our device which will make them appear.
So let's start with square dash red.
So the main thing we need here is a background color of red.
That will also need a width of 100 pixels and a height power of 100 pixels that we get wonderful.
There's are Red Square.
So let's copy and paste that for our blue and green squares.
Now they're going to be exactly the same
except of course going to be Billy
and green have a look.
There we go.
So we've solved the problem but it's not particularly elegant.
If I wanted to change the size of all three of these squares as I might want to do then I'd have to
update all of those.
Similarly I don't quite like the fact that they're attached.
I'd like to add margins to them but I'd have to do that separately for all three.
Which is not a great way to set up our page because it requires a lot of work to update it.
So what I'm going to do is add a class of square to each of these divs and then I'm going to put anything
that's common to all three of them into that square styling.
So the main thing that's come into all of them is the width and the height.
So I'm going to put that in there.
And then I can get rid of it for everywhere else.
All right.
So let's have a look.
Excellent it's still exactly the same as it was before but we now have two big advantages.
One is that we have less code than we had before.
We're probably just about the bigger one is that I can now update these squares with just one.
Yes s styling.
So as I mentioned I'm going to add a little bit of a margin.
Let's try 10 pixels just to spread them out a little bit.
Yeah I think that looks better.
Maybe even for something like 40 pixels.
Yeah.
I'm also going to have them along the top for no particular reason that I think that looks a little
bit nicer and I can do that really easily by just setting them all to flight left.
There we go.
Brilliant.
So I hope you manage that challenge.
But also I hope it was useful to see the advantage of using IDS in some cases but classes in another
to keep your code nice and easily updateable and changeable.
All right so now on to borders.
So I'm going to do different boards for each of these boxes and we'll start off with a nice straightforward
one for read and we'll have a one pixel black border and we do that by setting up a border property
and then we have to specify three things so the width of the border.
First off site one pixel in this case then the color of the border so black in this case and then the
style of the border.
And I'm going to use solid
again.
So you can hopefully just about see that as make it a little bit thicker.
So it will go for 10 pixels.
And now you can really see it clearly there.
So obviously you can change any of those.
We could have a nice yellow border can change with as we already have.
And we can change the type as well.
And if we want to get
a list of the different types we can have just google border styles and then click on the top result
and you can see we've got solid which is the one we've already used.
But if you scroll down and you can see all these different ones here dotted dashed double groove ridge.
So you can try on all of these out
and have a look at double.
Yes.
So it sort of goes yellow then red and yellow.
We can have dasht as well
which creates this dasht effect.
And you're welcome to try out the other ones.
To be honest I do use the different border styles very often.
So that is about all I regularly go for.
OK.
Now we can do much more complicated things than that if we want to.
So if we want to set for example the border to be different top left bottom and right we can do that
using border and then the various different options so if we wanted to have a different style on top
left bottom right.
I've no idea why we would do that but we might have bought a style and then let's say start off with
a rigid one then a solid then dotted and then dashed and just with margins and padding.
This will be the top one.
And then right and then bottom and left.
So let's have a look see what horrendous border we're creating here.
You can see we've got some defaults of black and a certain weight.
I think that's about three pixels but a different style on each one.
So here's a challenge for you.
Can you create it so that that's a different color on the top right bottom and left as well.
Go for it.
Did you manage it.
It's pretty similar.
We just use border color and then we could have green.
And then let's use a few of these example ones green beige pink and pale golden rule that sounds good
wonderful.
So now we've got different colors it's looking horrendous but it's a good example of what we're capable
of.
And then finally I'll just set a different with for each one as well and we'll do that with border with
and we'll have 10 pixels five pixels to pixels and one pixel
and then we get that looks pretty horrendous but it's pretty powerful as well.
I'm really customize this as much as we want and just like with margins and paddings you could set this
one by one using for example border left color border lifestyle et cetera.
All right so finally look at a much nicer use of borders and this is a border radius so rounded rectangles
are still all the rage.
And they're really easy to create using Borda radius so strictly speaking this isn't really a border
at all.
But let's have a look and let's make it a little bit bigger than that of a 20 pixel border radius.
What that will do it doesn't actually add a border a tool but it adds a radius to the edge of our square
which unlike our second example there.
And really the first one too does look quite aesthetically pleasing.
So I'd recommend getting bored radius into your toolkit as a web developer.
Final quick border radius challenge then could you change this border radius style so that it creates
a circle from the square and bonus points if you can do it two different ways.
Everett
All right.
Hope you manage that.
What we need to do is set the border radius to half of the width of our square.
So the square is 100 pixels.
So if we set the border radius to 50 pixels then the border radius effectively goes all the way from
the middle of the top to the middle of the right.
So we get a lovely circle the other way to do it would be to set the border radius to 50 percent.
And the advantage of doing it that way is then it will be a circle regardless of the size because the
border radius will always be half of whatever the width of the div is.
So if we change the width of all of these for example to be 400 pixels then you can see it stretches
out the border radius all the way.
And if the height was 400 pixels as well then we'd get a really nice big circle.
So you can use Boulder radius to create circles out of squares.
Wonderful.
So we're now coming to the end of our CSI section but we have a couple of videos before our big CSSA
project where we're going to clone the BBC News website.
And those last few videos are going to focus on styling text with CSSA.